#KBE App for catapult-launched drone design

This knowledge-based engineering (KBE) app is designed to give a first
design model for a catapult launched drone that can deliver a small payload,
based on either an endurance or range input. 

##Required packages

To run this app, Python 3.7 and the following packages should be installed;

- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- KBE-utils (from the KBE course, also included in the project files 
for easy download and installation)
- Q3D (Included in this folder)
- ParaPy

## Input files

The required input files are as follows;

- .xslx file with input parameters, an example is included
- .dat file for airfoil coordinates, should you wish to use a custom airfoil
- .dat file for propeller performance data, should you wish to use a custom propeller airfoil

##Program description

The KBE app works by constructing an initial version of the aircraft,
and iterating until a converged solution is found. It consists of 
a wing, fuselage, payload, battery, motor, propeller, and a horizontal 
and vertical tail. 

First, the input parameters are taken from the provided Excel file.
Then, these are put through the parametric model where some calculations
are performed for the initial sizing.

A simple Class-II weight estimation is performed for the wings and fuselage.
The required lift coefficient and required wing area are based on design 
specifications and stall speed requirements. Take-off or landing sizing
is not needed as they are launched by catapults to cruise speed 
and landing is performed by flying them at slow speeds into a catching arm.

Iteration is performed on the powertrain and wings. 
The aerodynamic performance of each configuration is calculated
in Q3D. To analyze the airfoil each airfoil coordinate is put through a
matlab program that converts the .dat file to CST-coordinates which are required
for the Q3D implementation. This is then used for the aerodynamic analysis.

##How it works

The program can be ran by inputting the input excel sheet in the Input folder.
Then the program can read in the data and the Aircraft.py file can be run.
This opens the ParaPy GUI, in which the model can be displayed and the 
iteration can be performed and the plots can be generated.


##Output files

The output of the program is a full 3D-model of the designed drone.
This is output in a STEP-file, along with plots for the motor performance.
The plots can be generated by clicking each respective button in the
ParaPy GUI. Iterations can be performed here as well.
Furthermore, a new Excel sheet is output with the most important data parameters,
should the user wish to analyze this in the future in the app. The outputs can 
be found in the Outputs folder.
